# Mithlesh/Papsmear_CervicalCancerCells
Cervical cancer is one of the most pandemic causes of cancer death in females. The main cause of cervical cancer is the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). Pap smear test is an easy and economical one screening method. In Pap test, spatula or soft brush is used to scrape the cells from the cervical area, and then these tissues are spread over a glass slide. These slides are stained with dye and allowed to be dry. A smear is analyzed by a trained cytologist/pathologist under microscope and if findings are suggestive of invasive carcinoma; patients are further send for the second level of investigations like tissue biopsy to confirm the initial findings. This dataset is collected with the use of Pap smear slides. Pap smear slides are collected from the Pathology lab, Jaipur. Real images are captured with the help of pathologist (cytologist) at Rajasthan University,Jaipur. The high esolution digital camera (Leica ICC50 HD) is mounted with the microscope (Leica BX51). Images can be captured with different scales values like 10x, 20x, 40x and 100x. In this paper, images are captured with 40x magnification because magnification of the camera plays a significant role in image apprehend. The resolutions of captured images are 940 x 880 and stored in .tiff format.In smear images along with cytoplasm and nucleus,a lot of extra elements are present. These are called debris. Debris includes red blood cells (RBC), inflammatory cells and dye. Debris can affect the segmentation methods.
Three segmentation methods are proposed to predect the dysplasia in the presence of debris.
